## Matplotlib Charts II:

### Line:
- A line graph is used to present continuous time-dependent data. 
- It accurately depicts the trend of a variable over a specified time period
  ```
  plt.plot(x_axis, y_axis)
  plt.xticks(rotation=90)
  ```
- Note:
  - The plt.plot() function can be tweaked
  - plt.plot(y, 'ro') # ‘ro’ represents color (r) and marker (o)
    - Creates a scatter plot if we specify markers 
  - plt.plot(y, 'red', marker ='o')
    - a line plot with the points marked

### Histograms:
		- Univariate 
		- A histogram is a frequency chart that records the number of occurrences of an entry or an element in a data set. 
		- It can be useful when you want to understand the distribution of a given series.
		- Ex:
			- plt.hist(profit, bins =100,edgecolor='Orange',color='cyan')
		- Note:
			- Out1, bins, out2 = plt.hist(profit, bins =100,edgecolor='Orange',color='cyan')
			- plt.hist(list_1, bins =4, range=[40, 80], edgecolor ='white')
		
### Box plots:
		- Univariate 
		- Box plots are quite effective in summarizing the spread of a large data set into a visual representation. 
		- They use percentiles to divide the data range. 
		    ```
        plt.boxplot([ list_1, list_2])
				#Outputs 2 box plots
        ```
 
		- Box plots divide the data range into three important categories, which are as follows:
			- Median value: This is the value that divides the data range into two equal halves, i.e., the 50th percentile.
			- Interquartile range (IQR): These data points range between the 25th and 75th percentile values.
			- Outliers: These are data points that differ significantly from other observations and lie beyond the whiskers.
	
