## Data Cleaning
    
1. Fix Rows and columns
- Missing row/column name
- Rename column, Delete unnecessary columns
- Split. Merge columns

2. Fix Missing Values
- Set values as missing values: Identify values that indicate missing data, and yet are not recognised by the software as such, e.g treat blank strings, "NA", "XX", "999", etc. as missing.
- Adding is good, exaggerating is bad: You should try to get information from reliable external sources as much as possible, but if you can’t, then it is better to keep missing values as such rather than exaggerating the existing rows/columns.
- Delete rows, columns: Rows could be deleted if the number of missing values are significant in number, as this would not impact the analysis. Columns could be removed if the missing values are quite significant in number.
- Fill partial missing values using business judgement: Missing time zone, century, etc. These values are easily identifiable.

3. Standardize values
- Standardise units: Ensure all observations under a variable have a common and consistent unit, e.g. convert lbs to kgs, miles/hr to km/hr, etc.
- Scale values if required:  Make sure the observations under a variable have a common scale
- Standardise precision for better presentation of data, e.g. 4.5312341 kgs to 4.53 kgs.
- Remove outliers: Remove high and low values that would disproportionately affect the results of your analysis.
- Standardise text - extra characters, case, format

4. Invalid Values
- Encode unicode properly: In case the data is being read as junk characters, try to change encoding, E.g. CP1252 instead of UTF-8.
- Convert incorrect data types: 
- Correct values that go beyond range: e.g. temperature less than -273° C (0° K), 
- Correct values not in the list: In a data set containing blood groups of individuals, strings “E” or “F” are invalid values and can be removed.
- Correct wrong structure:  a phone number of 12 digits would be an invalid value.
- Validate internal rules: Gross sales > net sales
- Treat them as missing values -> either fill appropriately or drop

5. Filter data
- Deduplicate data : identical rows/columns
- Fitter by segments, like date
- Filter columns relevant to analysis
- Aggregate data
