## Univariate Analysis

### Metadata
- Data Description
  - Format
  - # of rows
  - Sampling method
  - Collection Date, etc
- Feature description

### Unordered Categorical variables:

### Rank-frequency plots:
- Univariate analysis
- Extract meaning for even trivial unordered categorical variables such as country name, name of artist

### Power law distribution/equation:
- Log-log plot
- Y = axb
- Similar to linear plot in normal scale
- Constant slope? Straight line?

### Why plot on logscale?
- The objective of using a log scale is to make the plot readable by changing the scale
- Plotting on a log scale compresses the values to a smaller scale which makes the plot easy to read.
- This happens because log(x) is a much smaller number than x. For example, log(10) = 1, log(100) = 2, log(1000) = 3 and so on.


### To summarise, the major takeaways from this lecture are:
- Plots are immensely helpful in identifying hidden patterns in the data 
- It is possible to extract meaningful insights from unordered categorical variables using rank-frequency plots
- Rank-frequency plots of unordered categorical variables, when plotted on a log-log scale, typically result in a power law distribution

### Ordered Categorical variables:
- Histogram analysis -> Distribution of student marks

### Quantitative variables:
- Binning:
    - you can treat numeric variables as ordered categorical variables. 
    - For analysis, you can deliberately convert numeric variables into ordered categorical, for example, if you have incomes of a few thousand people ranging from $5,000 to $100,000, you can categorise them into bins such as [5000, 10000], [10000,15000] and [15000, 20000].
- Min,max,mean,median 
- median gives a typical value that could be used to represent the entire group
- Standard deviation and interquartile difference are both used to represent the spread of the data.
- Interquartile difference is a much better metric than standard deviation if there are outliers in the data. 
  - This is because the standard deviation will be influenced by outliers while the interquartile difference will simply ignore them.
  - SD exaggerates the spread in the presence of outliers
  - The spread can be better represented by Q3 - Q1

### QV Summary metrics:


### Let's summarise what you learnt:
- Metadata description describes the data in a structured way. You should make it a habit of creating a metadata description for whatever data set you are working on. Not only will it serve as a reference point for you, it will also help other people understand the data better and save time.
- Distribution plots reveal interesting insights about the data. You can observe various visible patterns in the plots and try to understand how they came to be.
- Summary metrics are used to obtain a quantitative summary of the data. Not all metrics can be used everywhere. Thus, it is important to understand the data and then choose what metric to use to summarise the data.


    
    



