## Bivariate Analysis

#### Continuous:

#### Correlation:
- If one increases as the other increases, the correlation is positive
- If one decreases as the other increases, the correlation is negative
- If one stays constant as the other varies, the correlation is zero

The correlated variables are grouped by similarities, and correlation can also be calculated for ‘groups of variables’. This is called ‘clustering

### Correlation Matrix:



### Categorical:
- The categorical bivariate analysis is essentially an extension of the segmented univariate analysis to another categorical variable. 
- In segmented univariate analysis, you compare metrics such as ‘mean of X’ across various segments of a categorical variable, e.g. mean marks of a student are higher for ‘degree and above’ than other levels of the mother’s education; or the median income of educated parents is higher than that of uneducated ones, etc.
    
- In the categorical bivariate analysis, you extend this comparison to other categorical variables and ask — is this true for all categories of another variable, say, men and women? Take another categorical variable, such as state, and ask — is the median income of educated parents higher than that of uneducated ones in all states?
-  Thus, remember that only conducting segmented univariate analysis may deceive you into thinking that a certain phenomenon is true without asking the question — is it true for all sub-populations or is it true only when you aggregate information across the entire population?

1. To see the distribution of two categorical variables. For example, if you want to compare the number of boys and girls who play games, you can make a ‘cross table’ as given below:

    
2. To see the distribution of two categorical variables with one continuous variable.

### Summary:
In Bivariate analysis, we look at the variables in pairs and try to understand if one influences the other. Based on the type of the variable, it could bivariate continuous or categorical analysis. Correlation matrix is useful tool for continuous variables analysis while cross-tab is for categorical variables.
    

