## Basics

### Why Python?

- Python is a general-purpose programming language that was named after Monty Python. 
- It is simple and incredibly readable since it closely resembles the English language. 
- In addition to this, its simplicity, as well as the way it ensures tasks can be performed using fewer lines of code, is encouraging many developers across the world to take it up. 

### Division Operators:
- '/' returns a float, and '//' returns the integer part and discards the fractional part.

### Sets:
-  A set is an unordered collection with no duplicate elements.
- Set objects also support mathematical operations like union, intersection, difference, and symmetric difference.
- Curly braces or the set() function can be used to create sets. Note: to create an empty set you have to use set(), not {}; the latter creates an empty dictionary
	○ basket={'apple','orange','apple','pear','orange','banana'}
	○ 'orange' in basket
	○ a=set('abracadabra')
	○ b=set('alacazam')
	○ a|b
	○ a&b

### Order of precedence in Arithmetic Operations:
- BEDMAS Rule
- Brackets Exponents Division Multiplication Addition Subtraction

### String 
- rstrip() -> remove trailing spaces
- lstrip() -> remove leading spaces/chars
- strip() -> do both

### Indices:
- Print chars at even indices in a string
- Ex:
	○ nums = '123456789'
	○ even_nums = nums[1::2]

## Data Structures:

### 1. Lists:
- Python Lists can be interpreted as both Stack and Queue
- .pop() , .pop(0), .append('R'), .remove('R')
- Convert String to List:
	○ .split()
- Convert List to String
	○ " ".join(list) => Specify separator in ""
- Supports Arithmetic Operations
- Sort => sorted(list)
- Max => max(list)
- Extend => Add List2 elements at the end of List1
	○ a.extend(b)
	○ Output :  [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
- Append => Append List2 as a list at the end of List1
	○ Output : [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, [6, 7, 8, 9]]

https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html

### 2. Tuples:
- Similar to lists, but elements cannot be removed/appended/modified - Immutable 
- More efficient In memory handling than list
- Created using ()
- How to modify a tuple if needed?
	○ Convert to list, modify, convert back to tuple
	○ Example:
		§ c = list(b)
		§ c[0] = 10
		§ c = tuple©

### 3. Dictionary:
- Also known as hash, map
- Key-value pairs, i.e., can be looked up easily compared to tuple, list
	○ Lists, tuples can be looked up only with indexes
- Denoted with {}
- GET
	○ bio_data.['Age]
		§ Might throw an error is the Key is not available in dict
	○ bio_data.get('Profession'.'NA')
		§ Can return a default value if the Key is not available in dict
- ADD a key
	○ bio_data['new_key'] = 10
- QUERY
	○ 'KEY' in bio_data
- bio_data.keys(), bio_data.values()
- Alternate ways of creation
	○ new_dict = dict(key1 = value1, keys2=[v1,v2])
- Concat/update/merge
	○ dict1.update(dict2)
- DELETE key
	○ del dict1['key']

### 4. Sets:
- Unordered collection of items that don’t repeat, i.e., unique
- Lists/tuples are ordered collection
- Set1 = set(list)
- .intersection(), .union(), .difference(), symmetric_difference

<p align="right">
   <a href="./1.1.3 Control Structures & Functions.md">Next Chapter</a>
</p>
